Jihoon: All right, I think we can wait a few more minutes to…
Jihoon: Have more people here, and then start a call.
Jihoon: Alright, I think this is it. Hello everyone, welcome to Fossil Breakout 19.
Jihoon: We have a small set of people here.
Jihoon: Yeah, thank you, Pooja.
Jihoon: I guess people are probably busy with Fusaka, so we can keep this one short.
Jihoon: I don't have a special agenda other than development updates, so…
Jihoon: We can jump into it first, and see if anything else comes up.
Jihoon: Firstly, I want to give a heads up about the spec. Currently, we cannot see the fossil spec on the website.
Jihoon: I was told that feature specs were hidden because they are experiments, but shorter forks require some people to work on the next fork, so I asked Justin about this, and
Jihoon: I think feature specs would have a separate section from canonical ones.
Jihoon: As far as I know, Justin is on his vacation, so we can wait a little bit more.
Jihoon: Next up would be rebasing. We are rebasing onto Fulu and then Coloss. Coloas is in no fork, like, without a PBS or whatnot.
Jihoon: Hey, NC.
Jihoon: I know that not every client teams are here, but
Jihoon: So we are talking about rebasing, so does any client that want to share some updates?
Jihoon: Maybe not. I think people are still busy with Fusaka, so, I think we can…
Jihoon: resume our work on Fossil after…
Jihoon: I don't know, shipping full circle or whatever, so that, so we can try out client interrupts again after we settle on
Jihoon: I guess, clue us with the updated engine APIs.
Jihoon: maybe we have the first EL interrupt. I haven't tried it out yet, but perhaps, Bella, you wanna share some updates?
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: Sorry?
Jihoon: I… guess you reached the EL interop between RET and GATH.
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: Oh yeah, I was just doing some basic testing on Electra, and everything seems to be working so far. I was only able to run it for a short amount of time yesterday.
Jihoon: Great, you might want to double-check if
Jihoon: Red produce IELTS correctly. You can see the log, or click some slot in DORA to see the IELT tab.
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: Okay, I can take a double check at that.
Jihoon: Okay, thank you.
Jihoon: So, I guess we have… We already have 6 clients ready for interop.
Jihoon: That's that.
Jihoon: Do we have any update on the metrics, Katya?
Katya Riazantseva: Hello, everyone.
Katya Riazantseva: I've just added a couple of metrics more, but I think they are my articles, so I just build them.
Katya Riazantseva: Probably next week, I will be more… I will have more free time, and maybe we will discuss.
Katya Riazantseva: the metrics, so I can open the APR in the metrics repo, if we have some agreements on metrics, if you don't mind, Jehoon.
Jihoon: Yeah, of course, yeah, yeah, feel free to share it.
Katya Riazantseva: And I wanted…
Jihoon: Yep.
Katya Riazantseva: Yeah, and I wanted to ask about the,
Katya Riazantseva: the config, the current config, so we are, running…
Katya Riazantseva: fossil on Fuller, on top of full, right? Or maybe glass already, or what's the current status?
Jihoon: So, we… were based on Electra, but now that it's
Jihoon: quite stale, so I think only Lighthouse and Geth are working at the moment. I repaired a new Cortosis config and Docker image that runs on top of Electra. It runs with only Lighthouse and Geth pair.
Jihoon: So maybe you can try that out.
Katya Riazantseva: Because Lone Star is already rebased on Fulu, also, so yeah, I was trying to… Combine it with guest.
Katya Riazantseva: It didn't work properly, I don't know, maybe it's CL side, we'll check again.
Jihoon: Oh, okay, so I… okay, I… let me try that interop between low star and get on top of…
Jihoon: It started with the fluid Genesis work, right?
Katya Riazantseva: No, no. I actually, I failed with Foologenesis. I'm starting from Electra, then follow, then go to Fossil.
Jihoon: Correct. Can I already start from Pulu?
Jihoon: So…
Jihoon: Ethereum package supports Flu… and it also supports Coloss Genesis fork, so you should be able to run with Fluid Genesis.
Jihoon: But yeah, I… yeah, I saw your, some error message in the, in the Discord channel, but…
Jihoon: Yeah, I'm not sure what's the issue.
Katya Riazantseva: Yeah, I will… I will give it a try again soon.
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: I also tried Lodestar and Gep for the Fulu Fork, and Fulu was fine, and then as soon as, Fossil Fork started, everything went… not… it all stopped working.
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: I couldn't quite figure it out, either.
Katya Riazantseva: Yeah, I've seen the reason, it's like,
Katya Riazantseva: on the, I guess, on the Lodestar, so probably I will ask,
Katya Riazantseva: and C, because, NC is here. So, the reason was in the,
Katya Riazantseva: engine API, I guess so,
Katya Riazantseva: Update, how does call update payload, or…
Katya Riazantseva: Notified payload, or something like this.
Katya Riazantseva: Yeah, this is where it failed last time I ran it.
Jihoon: Yeah, I can try that out. Maybe I have to update, some GAT code regarding the engine API version. Maybe, Nancy, do you have any clue regarding this?
NC: No idea.
NC: to be honest, like, the new code, I haven't ran it at all. It's not tested at all, so…
NC: I don't know.
Jihoon: Right, so there was no change on low star, so yeah, maybe it's natural for…
Jihoon: Low start to fail after we transition into flu.
Katya Riazantseva: So, it happens right after transitioning to fossil, to EIP, like, from full to EIP. So,
Katya Riazantseva: Yeah, I will take a deep look into it.
Katya Riazantseva: We'll see.
Jihoon: Okay, so, are you trying that…
Jihoon: I mean, I retry EIP7805 after Fallout, because…
Jihoon: Because we are rebasing, right?
Katya Riazantseva: Yeah.
Jihoon: Yeah, okay.
Jihoon: But I guess a low star is…
Jihoon: they don't have any update on their rebasing yet, so maybe you can just start on Electra and then IP7 and 05, and see how your metrics work.
Katya Riazantseva: No, we actually rebased, right? And see, we are on top of who currently is.
Jihoon: Okay, so we were talking about rebasing, okay.
Katya Riazantseva: Yeah.
Jihoon: Right, yeah, I can try that as well to see what's the log, and see…
Jihoon: Where the problem is.
Jihoon: And then I can share the, what I found.
Jihoon: In the Discord channel.
Jihoon: Yep.
Jihoon: Cool.
Katya Riazantseva: And the latest, clients, images, so they are still in your repo, right? Updated?
Jihoon: Right, so .
Katya Riazantseva: the configs, etc.
Jihoon: Which… which image are you asking? I guess?
Katya Riazantseva: Yeah.
Jihoon: Yeah, so I…
Katya Riazantseva: I normally… I'm using your repo with all the configs of the clients, so…
Jihoon: Yeah, so, we have two versions. The latest version is…
Jihoon: The latest one reflects the updated engine API, and the one before the latest one is previous one. So, I guess, if you are playing with Blowestar, then they haven't made any change yet, so you can just use the, the old one.
Katya Riazantseva: Okay, I can try both.
Jihoon: Let me pull that tag real quick, so that… Yeah, so you can try…
Jihoon: Oh, there's the chat? Yes.
Jihoon: You can try this one.
Katya Riazantseva: Okay.
Jihoon: Yeah, this one should be good.
Katya Riazantseva: Okay, thanks.
Jihoon: Does anyone have anything to discuss?
Katya Riazantseva: So currently, people are working on EPBS, right?
Katya Riazantseva: And, everyone's busy with PPS and Osaka at the same… at the same time.
Jihoon: I… think so. I think people are usually…
Jihoon: Most of the people are working on Fusaka, and some people are working on the PBS, on the CL side, at least, and some people
Jihoon: Find some time to work on next fork.
Jihoon: Like, 6-second slots, for example.
Katya Riazantseva: Yeah, okay.
Jihoon: Yeah, we can… if anyone has anything to discuss, then we can, cover it. Otherwise, we can just…
Jihoon: Get this one short.
Jihoon: Right, guys, I think this is it. Thanks for joining the call. Hope you guys have a great rest of your day, and…
Jihoon: See you in 2 weeks!
Katya Riazantseva: Thank you, Bargain.
NC: I agree with us.
Jihoon: Bye-bye.